6.0 Qualification
Registered entrants must qualify for the SRC by demonstrating a simple technological advancement prior to
the Competition. Teams will be scored on their demonstration performance. Up to twenty (20) teams will
advance to the next level of competition.
Each team will be required to complete two qualification tasks. The qualification tasks will be run independently
at each team's site. Each team must submit two simulation log files, one for each qualification task. The log
files will be evaluated by SRC officials. Instructions on how to complete the qualification tasks, and generate
and submit log files will be provided to registrants upon release of the qualifying simulation software (details on
challenge website). Teams may make any number of attempts at completing the qualification tasks, and submit
only their best results – one file for each of two tasks.
6.1 Qualification Tasks
6.1.1 Task 1
The first task will require teams to find a series of lights on a panel. R5 will start standing in front of a textured
panel that contains a number of colored lights. One at a time, the lights will turn on in a random pattern. Each
light will remain on for fixed period of time, between 5 and 20 seconds. The light pattern starts once simulation
is run, and will continue until simulation is complete.
Successful completion of Qualification Task 1 will entail:
1. Correctly identify ten lights in a row.
2. Light identification consists of an RGB value and position in R5’s head frame.
a. Both the RGB and position values are allowed an error tolerance that is TBD.
6.1.2 Task 2
The second task requires teams to press a button that opens a door, and then walk through the doorway. The
button will be located on a wall and will be brightly colored and textured. R5 will start in front of the wall. The
doorway will be located next to the button, and will open when the button is pushed.
Successful completion of the Qualification Task 2 will entail:
1. Pushing the button.
2. Walking through the doorway, where R5 must walk one (1) meter beyond the door without falling.
6.2 Qualification Scoring
Qualification score for Task 1 will be determined by comparing actual color/position and team’s reported
color/position and time to complete the Task 1. Qualification score for Task 2 will be determined by the time it
takes to complete Task 2. In Task 1, teams with smaller error will receive a higher score than teams with 
Rules doc revised 9/1/16 www.spaceroboticschallenge.com 7
larger error. In Task 2, teams completing the task using less time will receive a higher score than teams using
more time.
Twenty (20) teams will be selected to advance to the Space Robotics Challenge final competition. If more than
twenty teams successfully complete both qualifying tasks, the teams that completed qualifying Task 2 in the
fastest time will be selected. In the event of a tie, the amount of error in qualifying Task 1 will be the deciding
factor.
